# ML4SCI

1.Revealing the secrets of Ancient Roman concrete structure through Machine Learning

2.Figure out how Ancient Roman concrete is able to survived 2,000 years through Machine Learning

Ancient Roman concrete, made of volcanic ash, lime, seawater and volcanic rocks, have been gathering academic and industry attention, because of its unusual durability, low-carbon footprint and impact to the development of next generation of sustainable high performance concrete. Unlike the modern concrete, which tends to erode, the ancient roman concrete is more resilient and even able to improve its strength over 2000 years. One of the reason is the microstructures of cracks and voids of ancient Roman concrete is different from that of modern concrete. In order to discover the secrets of ancient Roman concrete structures, we investigated archaeological (67 B.C. to A.D. 64) samples using advanced X-ray light sources generated by particle accelerators (synchrotron microtomography) for non-destructive inspection of internal microstructures, especially cracks and voids. Besides, In-situ micro X-ray Computed Tomography tests of samples under progressive compressive loading were carried out to visualize and quantify the 3D crack propagation.

The current direct segmentation methods in the research of cementitious materials is using gray level to segment different phases(matrix, aggregate, crack and void). This method have not been able to efficiently provide highly-accurate segmentation results for the cracks and voids, because of the noises, the attenuation along the rotation axis of X-ray images and complex branching in a highly heterogeneous material. The In-situ micro X-ray Computed Tomography tests also generate terabytes of data, which need advanced algorithms to analyze the microstructures of ancient Roman concrete. The main idea of this stage is to use computer vision and machine learning efficiently and accurately quantify the structure and connectivity of concrete samples obtained from X-ray images. From the raw 2D X-ray images of the concrete samples, we did segmentations using two different methods: supervised learning method (?) and unsupervised learning method (Statistical Region Merging). Due to the similarity of the gray level between background and surface cracks, we filtered out the background and got the exact  cracks and voids with specific sizes and circularities. Then, we used 2D segmented images to calculate the volume fractions and reconstructed 3D images for the further mechanical analysis. We also compared the results of using machine learning methods with direct segmentation method, which shows higher accuracy(?% hard to measure).

From these preliminary results, the main conclusions are: 1.Machine Learning methods are more efficient and accurate than direct segmentation method for the X-ray images of cementitious materials  2.Machine Learning and computer vision provide a promising pathway for the research of microstructure of ancient Roman concrete. Further efforts will focus on improve the accuracy of the results and combine the machine learning method with other cutting-edge experimental methods such as digital volume correlation method to analyze the crack propagation in an in-situ experiment.
